Title: 2007 Year in Review
Date: 2007-12-15 12:46:00+00:00
Category: general

Looking though some older Livejournal entries got me reflecting a bit on this
past year, so here is my own year in review.

  
  
  
2007 started rough, even now I find it hard to find the words to describe the
events and feelings of that time, so for now, I wont.

  
  
  
Soon after the new year, I flew back to Curacao. Living there had it's good
points, but for the most part I did not enjoy it. I met some very good people,
learned a couple languages, and ultimately feel that I'm better off for the
experience. In late January I finally became a legal resident which was good,
I imagine getting deported is not a fun experience.

  
  
  
In March Karen came to visit the island, we had a really good time doing all
the touristy things there were to do, she was only there a week but we managed
to do quite a bit. About a week after she left I bought a car, the nice thing
about owning a VW is that every day it runs you consider a lucky day. That and
I was never upset when things broke, as it was expected.

  
  
  
At some point (I cant recall exactly when now), Tyler, Diego, and I moved from
the apartments to a big house. It was nice to be out of a cramped one room
apartment. The house had a decent sized yard where I saw plenty of wildlife. I
managed to catch 3 different types of lizards, including a fairly large
iguana. Unfortunately theft was a problem and I frequently had gas stolen from
my car and the house was actually broken into once.

  
  
  
In june I came to the US for a week. During this time I proposed to Karen, she
said yes. She also left with me to live in Curacao which greatly improved life
there.

  
  
  
In July I went back to the states for QuakeCon. My employer, My Game Room,
Launched two products, a magazine in which I wrote an article, and tournament
management software. The software did not work out as well as we would have
liked unfortunately. After the con I flew to central texas to see karen who
was already there visiting her grandparents. This was a really fun trip which
was a few days of not doing much and hanging out on a large farm. Here was
also where I saw the most brilliant starry skies I have seen since I lived in
the rockies.

  
  
  
After leaving texas I came back to MS to visit a bit, it was at this point I
had already made up my mind I was moving back even if it meant losing my job.
Thankfully however work was willing to let me work remotely which worked out
really well for me.

  
  
  
The day after moving back I purchased an ae86 corolla, a car I've wanted for
many years. Past that nothing terribly eventful has happened, but I'm
certainly happy. Probably happier than i've been in a long time. I've learned
to be more comfortable with who I am and I think I am moving in the needed
direction to make changes that I need to make in life.

  
  
  
Late 2006 I found it very hard to be optimistic about the new year, this year
however I find myself looking forward to what 2008 will bring. It's funny how
many things can change in a relatively short period of time.

