Title: Commuting Revisited
Date: 2009-09-16 08:15:00+00:00
Category: bikes

In June of 2008 I wrote a quick quide to commuting by bike in hopes that I
could help others looking to the same. That post is
[here](http://www.robsayers.com/bikes/Commuting-by-bicycle.html).

  
  
  
I wrote that after commuting for about a month. It has now been well over a
year since I started riding my bike to work, and I thought this subject would
be worth revisiting.

  
  
  
**The Bike**  
  
I am still riding the same bike I was then, a 2008 Giant Sedona. The bike has
performed extremely well and has enabled me to live without owning a car. I
purchased this bike because it was a comfort bike with some mountain bike
components, namely the suspended front fork. I was under the impression that
this setup would be ideal for potholes, cracks, curbs, etc. It turns out I
have dedicated much of the money I have spent on modifications to stiffening
up how the bike rides.

  
  
  
The fat tires have been replaced with very narrow slicks. Instead of tread
which robs you of energy, I now glide along on smooth tires. Instead of 60psi
tires which deform a bit under weight, they are now 85psi and provide much
less rolling resistance. Also gone is the large padded saddle with spings to
protect my bottom-side from bumps in the road. In its place is a Brooks
leather saddle. In addition to keeping me more stable (which in turn steals a
little less power) it is also much more comfortable on longer rides. It may
seem counter intuitive, but the hard leather conforms to me and supports
everywhere it makes contact, think of it sort of like the theory behind a bed
of nails, it does not harm you because it is evenly supported.

  
  
  
I also added a few other enhancements such has trekking handlebars to replace
the straight mounting bike style bars. This gives me a wide range of hand
positions to help with fatigue and soreness. There is also a bell to alert
pedestrians and other cyclists when I pass, espectially on shared trails, and
a handlebar mounted bottle cage which more often than not tends to hold a cup
of coffee. There are also a set of fenders which I added after getting soaked
one too many times.

  
  
  
The number one thing I added however would be the rear rack and panniers (rear
bags, from the French word for hamper). Being able to ride with my cargo on
the bike and mounted low instead of on my back has made a world of difference.
If you are going to commute, this should be the first addition in my opinion,
no other change so dramatically enhanced my commute. On hot days when I need
to change into my work clothes when I get to the office, I fold, roll, and
place them in one of the bags. I can carry my lunch, tools, ham radio, and
other misc items as well. It's very handy. I've also gone on two long distance
camping trips with my bike, the first one was before I had the panniers and I
wore a 40lb backback the whole trip, it was terrible. The second trip almost
all the gear was on my bike, in comparison, it was nearly effortless.

  
  
  
**Dress**  
  
When I wrote my last commuting post, it was the middle of Summer and my
commute was mid-day. I now work 8am-5pm and have also seen a winter come and
go. At the hottest part of the summer, bringing my work clothes with me to
change into is a must. Now in early september, I find I can just wear my work
clothes as it is much cooler. I do have to roll up my right pants-leg to avoid
it getting grease. I often forget this though and nearly every pair I own has
stains. I found the winter much less pleasant though, even with our mild
Mississippi winters. On the coldest days, a set of thermal underwear under my
clothes was needed. Something to cover the ears will also be good, I alternate
between a skullcap or ear muffs. A full face mask would be ideal though and I
may pick one up for this winter. Gloves would be the #1 item I would recommend
though. Without them my hands would get painfully cold and I had trouble even
operating the shifters or brakes. A set of thin runners gloves made this
bearable, although I would like something a little thicker.

  
  
  
**Cars**  
  
My daily route stays the same, and now I very rarely have close calls with
cars. I dont think motorists are any more alert, I've just gotten more aware
and can tell if a car is about to try and merge on top of me or pull out in
front of my path. Staying alert and visible is key.

  
  
  
I still get yelled at from time to time, now it's more comical than anything.

  
  
  
  
  
Commuting has been very rewarding, I'm in better shape now than ever, my quads
especially look great. I can afford to be less strict with my diet thanks to
my guaranteed burning of calories each day. Most of all though, I've saved a
ton of money. I couldn't even tell you what gas prices are right now, and all
the money I've spent on the bike and accessories I've saved in just insurance
alone. I still recommend commuting if at all possible, it's a fantastic way to
get around!

