Title: How to learn a language
Date: 2008-07-09 00:16:00+00:00
Category: general

A long time ago I intended to write a tutorial on how to learn a foreign
language. [This](http://matadorstudy.com/10-steps-to-becoming-fluent-in-a
-language-in-6-months/) post reminded me of that. It's a good guide, but has
to many steps. I have created a system that will allow you to learn any
language in 3 easy steps.

  
  
  
**1. Move to another country**  

  
  
  
Immersion is important. If you want to learn Spanish, move to Spain or Latin
America. If you want to learn German, move to Germany. Want to learn Russian?
Book a ticket to the motherland. Being surrounded leaves you with pretty much
no choice but to learn. I can assure you that your brain will pick up a
language very fast if it has to. By default, when you get confused when
speaking a language, you want to revert back to your mother tongue. When
that's not an option, you learn much quicker.

  
  
  
**2. Make friends**  

  
  
  
Friends who speak other languages are great (Shout out to Diego and Tyler).
Not only are they cheaper than those portable electronic translators, they are
also much more interesting to drink with. You learn languages best by simply
being around it, but having someone to fill in the gaps for you is very
valuable. A local to the region will also help you with those nuances you
would never pick up in a book or class.

  
  
  
**3. Drink**  

  
  
  
Everyone is afraid of looking dumb... until they get drunk! Being in a strange
land with help you learn the language, drinking in a strange land will get you
to speak it. The times I went from speaking broken phrases here and there to
speaking full correct sentences were almost always in bars and clubs. With the
shyness gone, you'll find you know a lot more than you realize in a short
amount of time.

  
  
  
So there you have it, go quit your job, buy a ticket, make some friends, and
order a drink. You'll be speaking whatever you want in no time!

