Title: Marathon Complete
Date: 2009-12-16 12:45:00+00:00
Category: fitness

![](http://www.robsayers.com/images/banner3.jpg)On December 5th I completed my
first, but probably not last marathon in Memphis TN.

**Pre Race**   
The race began at 8:00am but was started in waves. The elite runners up front
and each progressively slower group behind them. I was in one of the slower
groups, the 5-6 hour finish group, so I started about 20 minutes after 8am.
There were a lot of people both gathered to race and spectate. The early
morning temperature was 26 degrees F, but the cold weather did not subdue the
energy one bit. After a few 5k's which attract a couple hundred people at
most, it was really cool to see so many thousands in one location.

**Start - Miles 1-6 **   
We finally got to start, and the race began in the heart of downtown Memphis.
The streets were lined with people cheering on in support, this was very
encouraging. This race had a support station every single mile with water,
powerade and portapottys. I ended up skipping the first 3. The cold weather
made it so I wasn't sweating at all even after the first hour of running, I
started getting powerade from the stations staring with mile 3 even though I
wasn't thirsty, it was mainly to keep sugar in my body to prevent bonking
later on. The early part of the race ran by the river and the pyramid. After
doing all my long runs on the same path, it was nice to be on a run with a
change of scenery. About a quarter of the race in, I was feeling great, I felt
like I could run forever.

**Miles 7-13**   
The second quarter of the race is where I started feeling a little fatigue,
not bad at all though. I ate my first gel pack somewhere around mile 7. The
aid station at mile 9 was supposed to have them as well, but they appeared to
be out by the time I got there. Somewhere in this stretch I got warm enough to
remove my arm-warmers and ear muffs. I also took off my gloves for a while,
but my fingers got a bit cold and I put the gloves back on until the end of
the race. The real surprise was at the half-way point, the half-marathoners
turned off and things got lonely real fast. I knew they half-runners
outnumbered the full-runners quite a bit, but in just a short while, the
streets went from crowded to desolate.

**Miles 13-20**   
After the half, I experienced my first pain. My left knee which had been
problematic during training acted up again. I had meant to take something for
pain before the race to dull this if it flared up, but completely forgot. The
pain got bad enough at times to cause me to limp a little. Thankfully it
wasn't constant and would come and go. I also got some pretty sharp pains on
the bottom of my feet. I thought that it was plantar fasciitis again, but as
the pain want away post-race, I think it was just from my feet pounding the
pavement for so long. During this stretch I couldn't help but notice how
diverse Memphis is. I've been there a few times, but seeing 26 miles of a city
on foot lets you really see what a city is made of.

**The Finish - Miles 20-26**   
Towards the end, my quads were in a lot of pain and simply did not want to
move anymore. For energy, I felt fine. I brought 3 gel packs of my own, and
had the 3 offered at the aid stations. Along with the gatoraid I carried with
me and the poweraid from all the aid stations, I think my sugar levels were
fine. My cardio was never taxed too badly, a few times I did get winded, but
it wasn't bad. I used my heart rate monitor to maintain my pace. I tried to
keep my rate in the 160's, but at this point in the race I was going extremely
slow even in the 170s and approaching the 180s. I started out in the 5:30 pace
group but quickly lost them. Somewhere in the last 6 miles the 5:45 group
caught up with me. I was actually really happy about this as that meant I was
not going as slow as I thought. I kept up with them until about mile 23 or 24
and hoped to follow them the whole way. I wasn't sure if there was a 6 hour
group or not, but I made up my mind I would finish under 6 hours which gave me
a little more motivation.

Mile 25 arrived and I picked up the pace a little. At this point that means I
was probably running a 12 minute pace, still faster than what I had been
doing. My mind made the mistake of thinking "1 mile left", rounding off that
.2 miles at the end. That .2 miles is perhaps the longest .2 miles on earth,
because even after passing mile 26, it seemed like the finish never arrived.

As I saw the finish line, I sped up to make a triumphant finish. Maintaining
that speed would have meant passing a couple who was then running hand-in-hand
very close to the finish. I decided that would have been a jerk move and
slowed down a bit. When I crossed I was pretty exhausted, a volunteer gave me
my medal and tried to wrap me in a space blanket which I tried to decline. She
reminded me it was in the 40's still, so I accepted. Good thing too, after
resting a few minutes, I realized just how cold it was.

Final time was 5:49. It's slow, but I achieved my #1 goal of finishing, and my
on-the-fly goal of coming in under 6 hours.

**Closing Thoughts**   
My feelings are conflicted, I'm happy to have achieved this, I worked hard for
a few months for a difficult goal... but at the time time, its slow! I feel
like I could have trained harder and turned in a better time. I think I'll
just be happy with this and use it as motivation for the future. I've decided
my goal for next time is to shave at least an hour off my time and come in
under 5 hours. This can be done just by maintaining a 10 minute pace,
something I should not have trouble doing.

Overall it was more difficult than I expected. The race was a whole 6 miles
longer than my previous longest distance. I was in pain for days. The race was
on a Saturday, and Monday morning I was still walking with a limp. Tuesday I
was still pretty sore. This is easily the hardest thing I've ever done in my
life. I'm looking forward to the next one, although I'm focusing on training
for long distance cycling right now, a nice change of pace.

