Title: My trip to Tokyo
Date: 2011-11-09 05:02:00+00:00
Category: Uncategorized

![](https://lh5.googleusercontent.com/-OTjDKaKlHNY/TrnbRfEem8I/AAAAAAAAEI4
/F6b-3G5gZJg/s640/ipod_0072.JPG)

  


  

For about 10 years I've wanted to visit Japan.  Not bad enough one could argue
as I've never made the effort to get there.  But the food, technology,
legendary politeness, and most importantly the cars have always drawn me
towards Japan.

  

The stars recently aligned and I was able to finally take that vacation I've
always wanted to do.  Less than a month ago I was able to book a flight and
hostel.  I departed on November 2nd, and Landed the evening of November 3rd.
I stayed until the 7th, which made for a trip just long enough to be
satisfying for a person traveling alone.

  

**November 3**

  

I arrived at the hostel and immediately went to the common area to hang out
with my fellow travelers.  I first stayed at a hostel in May of this year when
I visited Rome.  In my opinion it's the only way to travel.  Instead of paying
too much to be shut off in a room alone, you are surrounded by great people
and you free up more money to actually enjoy your destination.  It doesn't
matter that you arrive in a city alone, if you stay in a hostel you're with
the biggest and best group you could travel with.

  

After hanging out a bit I did my traditional walk around the area and tried my
best to get lost.  I did this with great success as it took me hours to find
my way back to the hostel.  There is nothing like getting lost in a new and
strange place.

  

**November 4**

  

The next day I was up early to go sight seeing.  I won't describe everything
in detail as that's been done thousands of times over, I'll provide a list
instead and let the reader read on if they so choose.  On this day I saw:

  

  

  * [Sensoji Temple](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sens%C5%8D-ji)
  

  * [Akihabara](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Akihabara)
  

  * [Ginza](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ginza)
  

  * [The Sony Building](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sony_Building_(Tokyo))
  

  * [The Imperial Palace Gardens](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Imperial_Palace_Tokyo)
  

  * [Shibuya](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shibuya)
  
  

That night a group from the hostel took the last train out to Shibuya to find
a night club.  We met up with a random group of Japanese guys who took us to a
great club.  It was as enormous and over the top as you could expect.  My
memory starts to fail me at this part of the evening.  Copious consumption is
de rigueur when hosteling, and even more so when in Tokyo it seems.  To make
matters worse I was drinking with a group of Europeans and Australians.  It
may have been more than this American could handle.

  

**November 5**

  

The next morning I awoke and quickly headed to Nippon Rental Car to pick up my
Suzuki Wagon-R.  This is what's known as a [kei
car](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kei_car) and is extremely small and good on
gas.  I needed a car because my main destination was the legendary shop of [RE
Amemiya](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RE_Amemiya), arguably the most famous
tuning house of rotary engine sports cars.  As the previous owner of 3 RX7s
and currently an RX8,  this was sort of a pilgrimage for me.  Thankfully the
car was equipped with GPS, and even though it was in Japanese, I managed to
figure it out well enough to get where I needed to go.  The drive out there
was an experience itself as the scenery leaving the city was sublime.  I
finally arrived and looked around the shop a bit.  Few people were there as
they were at a nearby Super Autobacs for a rotary demo.  I tried to get
directions to the location, but was not able to find it unfortunately.  The
shop however was a mix of merchandise and museum with old race engines,
photos, and trophies from races one adorning the walls.  I purchased a decal
for my car and a model rx8 before departing.  It's generally considered a
poser move to put a decal on your if it doesn't have any parts from that
company, but with what I went through to get it, I feel I earned it.

![](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/-hyWt-
SEBnIE/TrnZ23zSH1I/AAAAAAAAEFM/QBSzREh_weg/s640/ipod_0042.JPG)

  

From there I headed along what I thought was the route that would lead me to
the artificial island of [Odaiba](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Odaiba), but
instead got me wildly lost in the countryside.  I could not have planned a
better accident.  There were scores of rice farms, traditional country homes,
and quaint towns.  I lack the language to describe the beauty of this area.

  

I finally got headed back in the right direction and to my delight ended up on
the [wangan](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shuto_Expressway) highway.  I know
this series of highways quite well as it is the basis for the Tokyo Extreme
Racer series that I used to play extensively.  It was a treat to be able to
drive the roads I had been on countless times via a Playstation 2.  I finally
made it back to Tokyo, dropped of the rental car, got to the hostel, and
promptly went to bed.

  

**November 6/7**

  

The next morning I was up before 7am to get started on sight seeing again.
This day I saw:

  

  

  * [The Meiji Shrine](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Meiji_Shrine)
  

  * [Tokyo Tower](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tokyo_tower)
  

  * [Toyota Mega Web](http://www.megaweb.gr.jp/About/en.html)
  

  * [Toyota History Garage](http://octanereport.com/tuned-cars/2010/08/18/toyota-history-garage-dream-museum.html)
  

  * [Harajuku](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Harajuku)
  

  * [Odaiba](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Odaiba)
  
  

Then it was back to the hostel for a quick nap, and then off to do the one
thing I had to do before leaving... karaoke!  We rented a room from 12am to
5am and it included unlimited drinks.  This was an absolute blast and I could
not have spent my last night in Tokyo with a better group of guys.  We ate at
Denny's (which is not at all like what we have in the US) and then headed
back.  I got about 3 hours of sleep before I checked out, picked up the last
few souvenirs and was off to the airport to try and sleep away my hangover on
the plane.

  

![](https://lh6.googleusercontent.com/-JsLkS4_19tI/TrnfIDwImBI/AAAAAAAAERs/Ukb
HHjpQfgA/s640/ipod_0140.JPG)

  

Whenever you anticipate something too long, you run the risk of raising your
expectations too high.  I've done this before with other things as well as
travel.  I knew there was no way I would be able to tone down my excitement
for this trip, and was prepared to have it not live up to my expectations.

  

Thankfully my imagination is not what it used to be, or Tokyo is really just
that special.  This trip was far and away the best vacation I've had and I
could not be happier that I was able to go.  It exceeded my expectations in
every way.  If you have the means to visit, you should go... now.

  

**[Trip photos can be found on Google+ ](https://plus.google.com/u/0/photos/108080768185966300282/albums/5672795029628700161)**

  


