Title: Post Trip Report
Date: 2010-09-07 21:07:00+00:00
Category: travel

I began my journey at 4:00am on Saturday September 4th.  I figured the journey
would take between 8 and 10 hours, and my reservation was at 2:00pm, so I was
erring on the high side.  I packed light and actually brought no tools aside
from a tire plug kit.  The Ruckus had 880 miles on it at this point and I have
roadside assistance with my insurance, so I figured I would be ok, i was still
a bit nervous though.

  


  

I only had about 3 hours of sleep but felt pretty good.  I was wearing shorts
and a t-shirt in preparation of the typical hot-as-hell Texas days we have
had, but the recent rain cooled things off a bit and it was quite cold for a
while.  In fact it didn’t warm up until about 3 hours into the ride.

  

I stopped about 10 miles in to pick up some OJ, it was also the first chance I
had to get a good pic of the mighty steed before really getting on the road.

  


  


  

![](http://www.robsayers.com/pn-trip/image4.png)

  

Passing near a park near San Marcos I saw these deer in a park.  I rode up
very close to them and they didn’t startle until I stopped.

  


  

![](http://www.robsayers.com/pn-trip/image7.png)

  

I decided to stop for breakfast in San Antonio which gave me an opportunity to
warm up and wait for the Sun to rise.  The route up to, and through San
Antonio was difficult as I was following the Google maps directions for biking
in order to stay off the interstate,  these were not optimal for a scooter,
but it was the best I had.  Once I got out of SA I was able to follow the
frontage road all the way to Moore, where I stopped for gas and rest.  This is
also where I saw the first signs indicating that I was getting close to my
destination.  I hadn’t been keeping up with the mileage much and was happy to
know I was over half way through.

  


  

![](http://www.robsayers.com/pn-trip/image2.png)

  


  

Highway 57 was nice as it was non-stop all the way to Eagle Pass.  I met a new
friend and helped him along his way:

  


  

![](http://www.robsayers.com/pn-trip/image0.png)

  


  

And also snapped this while I was stopped, I really like how this turned out:

  


  

![](http://www.robsayers.com/pn-trip/image5.png)

  


  

I was stopped by a border control agent at one point.  He claims I didn’t move
to the other lane while he had someone else pulled over,  it’s probably true,
but I think it was more of an excuse to see wtf I was doing on a scooter out
there.  He and his partner seemed to have a hard time believing I was going to
Mexico alone for the weekend just for fun.  They warned me about border
violence and sent me on my way.

  


  

I reached Eagle Pass a little while later, a little after noon if I recall.  I
had hoped to find some secured parking lot but was unable to.  I called the
police department to see if they could recommend something and they gave me
the number of a towing service that might lock it up in their yard for a fee.
The towing place said they could help, but to come back in about an hour as
they had just taken lunch.  When I finally got there they actually put it in
their garage which made me feel a lot safer.

  

After that, I walked across the border (with no controls at all going into
Mexico which surprised me) and found my hotel about a mile away from the
border.  It was so close in fact I had cell service without roaming, score!

  


  

![](http://www.robsayers.com/pn-trip/image1.png)

  


  

Honestly there wasn't much to do there as it’s not a tourist town.  I mainly
walked around and explored what I could.  I did make sure my first meal was a
plate of nachos.  Piedras Negras is the city where they were invented, and
these were by far the best I’ve ever had:

  


  

![](http://www.robsayers.com/pn-trip/image3.png)

  


  

I spent a lot of time in the hotel watching familiar movies dubbed in Spanish,
maybe I was being lazy... we’ll call it a Spanish lesson.

  


  

![](http://www.robsayers.com/pn-trip/image8.png)

  

Monday morning I checked out of the hotel and walked back across the border.
I got grilled a little bit by the immigration officer.  She asked me a ton of
questions and searched my bag.  I wasn’t thrilled with this, but I didn’t have
much of a choice but to put up with it.  After that, I walked to the tow yard,
paid the man and set out back to Austin.

  

The ride back seemed much harder,  maybe it was soreness from the ride down
finally catching up with me, but my rear end was hurting pretty early into the
ride.  I caught a little bit of rain, but nothing too bad.  Thankfully it only
lasted about 15 minutes since I left my newly purchased rain suit at home.

  

It was a fun ride and a great experience.  455 miles total and the Ruckus
didn’t have a single problem.  Mexico was fun as always,  I love getting lost
in unfamiliar places and seeing how every day people live.  Despite my
horrible Spanish, everyone was very patient with me there despite not meeting
a single English speaker.  Mexico is really a great place, and more
importantly has some great people.  I recommend everyone visit there at least
once.

  


  

![](http://www.robsayers.com/pn-trip/image6.png)

  


  

[All pics can be found on Google+](https://plus.google.com/photos/108080768185
966300282/albums/5633894503876797969)

