Title: Traveling with an iPod Touch.
Date: 2011-11-15 01:47:00+00:00
Category: Uncategorized

![](http://www.robsayers.com/img/apple-ipod-touch-4g.png)

  

When I was in Rome this past summer, I decided to not bring along a netbook,
and instead depend on my Nexus One for internet access.  I also did not bring
along a camera and instead used my phone for snapshot duty.  I was mainly
pleased with how well it worked on the trip, my photos were good enough for
posting on Facebook, and as I use my phone for internet access constantly
anyhow, depending on it for connectivity abroad was not a big strain.

  

The main issue I did have with it was battery life.  Even in airplane mode, a
busy day of sightseeing could drain the battery with picture taking, map
checking, and the occasional email read.

  

For the trip to Tokyo I decided a new gadget was needed.  My first thought was
a tablet.  the iPad2 would have been my first choice, but I honestly didn't
want to spend that sort of coin.  For a little less I could have bought an
Android tablet,  but at the price point I wanted (under $250) I couldn't find
anything that was significantly better than the phone I already owned aside
from the larger screen.

  

I eventually decided to give the iPod Touch a try.  The battery life seemed
good, it's slim, fast, and the App Store had a ton of great apps that would
help on my trip.  I ended up being very pleased with it and whole heatedly
recommend it for anyone needing a device for travel.

  

It's mainly sold as a media/gaming device, but this is how I used it in Tokyo

  

  

  * Alarm clock.  Simple enough but insanely useful when trying to stay on schedule while desperately jet-lagged.  The iPod used nearly no battery life overnight while unplugged which removes anxiety about using it in this capacity.  The international clock was great as well as it allowed me to quickly see what the time was back home.
  

  * "Phone".  I installed the Google Voice app which let me use the iPod as a phone and do SMS whenever I had internet access.  This is great for keeping in touch back home.
  

  * Travel Guide.  If your destination is popular, you can definitely find guidebook type apps which not only list popular destinations, but how to get there as well.  No need to carry around a thick guide book.  I also found a Tokyo subway map which included a route planner.  I would input my start and destination stations and it gave me the exact route to take.  I would have lost a lot of time staring at the maps on the station walls without this.
  

  * Translator.  Talking phrasebook apps are available in most languages.  This prevents having to carry a regular book as well.  To be honest though, I never needed to use this, but it was nice to have.
  

  * Camera.  After only 2 days in Tokyo my digital camera broke.  Without the iPod I would not have pictures of most of my trip.  The quality was not great compared to my regular camera, but they were good enough... and certainly better than nothing.
  

  * Notepad.  You meet a lot of people on the road... being able to quickly get some one's email address is handy.  As much as I try, I don't always remember to carry a pad and pen.
  
  

Of course I also used it in-flight for watching movies or listening to music.
As you would expect it excells at this.  Turn the screen brightness down and
put it in airplane mode... the device sips power.  I watched 3 movies back to
back and only used half the battery.  Playing games used up power a lot
quicker which I found somewhat surprising.

  

Another reason for going with the iPod was the ubiquity of iDevices.  No
matter where you are in the world, if you need a charger, or any other
accessory, you can bet you can find it for the iPod/iPhone/iPad.  For example,
I purchased a rechargeable battery pack before I left to charge the iPod if I
was away from power too long and needed to recharge.  I ended up forgetting
this in the rental car when I dropped it off.  Thankfully I found a
replacement... in the 7-11 across the street from my hostel.

  

I'm usually a bit wary of depending on devices for travel information.  I
always write down directions to key places, like how to get from the airport
to my hostel.  I'll probably still do this, but only as a backup for the info
I'll be keeping on the iPod in future travels.

  

Where did it fall short?  To be honest I can't come up with anything.  The
only downside would be the lack of free apps in the App Store.  As an Android
user I'm used to an abundance of free apps, in iLand however,  most apps will
cost you.  I didn't mind so much.  The apps I needed were there and high
quality, there is also a better selection in the App Store.

  

I would definitely recommend this to anyone looking for a do-it-all travel
gadget.  It's smaller and cheaper than a tablet, and is better suited to
travel than using your smartphone.  I was very pleased with it and look
forward to taking it more places around the globe.

  


