Title: 1000 Miles with 100cc. What could go wrong?
Date: 2012-11-27 00:58:00+00:00
Category: travel
Tags: travel, scooters 

This Thanksgiving I trekked home as I do every year to feast with the family.
To spice things up a bit, I decided to make the trip on my SYM Symba.

[![](http://1.bp.blogspot.com/-J2lqSuohQnQ/ULQFiJfxC-I/AAAAAAAAIgY/BXIKP87l3R4
/s400/IMG_20121121_075045.jpg)](http://1.bp.blogspot.com/-J2lqSuohQnQ/ULQFiJfx
C-I/AAAAAAAAIgY/BXIKP87l3R4/s1600/IMG_20121121_075045.jpg)

Loaded up and ready to roll out.

[This is the route](https://maps.google.com/maps?saddr=Austin,+TX+78744&daddr=
Fayetteville,+AR&hl=en&ll=33.559707,-92.856445&spn=12.583058,25.576172&sll=33.
129385,-95.952265&sspn=6.328083,12.788086&geocode=FVfCzAEdCb8s-
in_F649orNEhjEXDcj_5r2GYg%3BFXRFJgIdjkVj-
imdPrUve2_JhzHPyLT8afAZRQ&dirflg=h&mra=ls&t=m&z=6) that I followed heading up.
I left at 8am,  and due to poor estimation and a little dragging my feet, I
finally gave up at 1am and got a hotel room only 2 hours from my destination.
The next morning I was on the road a little after 8am and was at my Dad's
house around 10am making my total transit time around 19 hours.  I actually
didn't calculate that until just now... wow.

Early in the ride up, I realized that  my horn and turn signals were not
working properly.  I had installed a 12v port to charge my phone, and I
assumed one of my connections had come loose.  After stopping to remove the
charger and double check the connections, it became apparent that things were
not getting any better.  My hope was that the battery was simply not getting
charged, and that some time on the road would fix this.  It never got better
and I've had to kickstart it ever since.

[![](http://1.bp.blogspot.com/-sITgNT06gEo/ULQLLaChm_I/AAAAAAAAIgo/DiBQieO4LH4
/s400/IMG_20121121_085236.jpg)](http://1.bp.blogspot.com/-sITgNT06gEo/ULQLLaCh
m_I/AAAAAAAAIgo/DiBQieO4LH4/s1600/IMG_20121121_085236.jpg)

Stopping for a photo op along a Texas farm road.

The other big issue I had was fuel cutting out on inclines when I was below
about 1/3 of a tank.  I'm sure this is related to the vacuum system that
others have complained about on the forum.  I plan to replace the vacuum
petcock with a manual one and see if that helps.

On the ride back, my dad was gracious enough to truck the bike to the Texas
border, allowing me to bypass all of Arkansas and Oklahoma.  This cut the
entire return trip down to 342 miles and got me home around 11pm.

[![](http://2.bp.blogspot.com/-3hUVdRfjN08/ULQLWqAgaAI/AAAAAAAAIgw/NZgFryviOaE
/s400/IMG_20121121_085254.jpg)](http://2.bp.blogspot.com/-3hUVdRfjN08/ULQLWqAg
aAI/AAAAAAAAIgw/NZgFryviOaE/s1600/IMG_20121121_085254.jpg)

Little bike, big trip.

The ride back was mostly uneventful until I was really close to home.  As I
rolled into Hutto Tx, I noticed a really awful sound when I would come to a
stop.  After some tests in an empty parking lot, I finally realized my chain
had developed so much slack, that it was slapping the chain guard!  This was
surprising to me as I had adjusted it to spec less than an hour before leaving
home.

[![](http://4.bp.blogspot.com/-ZR42k9Fuf7A/ULQLjCg436I/AAAAAAAAIg4/zX_2nPYE3R0
/s400/IMG_20121121_152726.jpg)](http://4.bp.blogspot.com/-ZR42k9Fuf7A/ULQLjCg4
36I/AAAAAAAAIg4/zX_2nPYE3R0/s1600/IMG_20121121_152726.jpg)

The fall leaves are always a nice sight.

To prepare for the trip, I added a cheap front rack from eBay intended for a
Honda Passport.  I re purposed an SAE socket as a spacer and it fit great.
This rack held my bag and seemed to flex a good bit.  I fully expected it to
break but it never did.  I had previously installed a Givi E26 top case which
held my tools and any clothes my bag wouldn't hold.  There was also the before
mentioned 12v port which I did later re-install and it worked perfectly.  For
tools I brought an adjustable wrench, vise grips, ratchet with 10,12,14,and
17mm sockets, and a multipurpose bike tool which had a number of items
including screwdrivers, allen wrenches, and a knife.  In case of a flat which
I thankfully didn't have, I brought a patch kit,  valve tool, spare valves,
and a compact bicycle air pump.

On the trip up, once the sun went down, it became cold very quick.  By the end
of the evening I was wearing a hoodie under my Corazzo 5.0, which was under my
ski jacket, which was under my Tour Master rain jacket.  Below the waist I was
wearing wool tights which I purchases for outerwear during my cycling days, a
pair of jeans, and finally the matching Tour Master rain paints mainly for
wind.  I wouldn't say i was comfortable, but I wasn't at risk of hypothermia
either.  I did have to make frequent stops to fight off the cold and fatigue
which is a large part of why the trip up took so long.

I'm impressed with how well this little bike held up.  Even though I lost the
electric starter, it was really a non issue because of the kickstart backup.
On a bigger bike, this would have been the end of the trip.  While it goes
slow and is built with pretty ancient technology,  I hit the road confident
that it wouldn't leave me stranded.  I can't wait to make another epic trip,
but next time I'll make sure I don't have to cross so many miles in such a
short span of time.  I'd rather have the time to check out the odd scenic
overlook or historical sight, or be able to snap a few more photos.

 

