Title: Amazon Cloud Drive/Player
Date: 2011-03-30 02:13:00+00:00
Category: Uncategorized

Amazon announced it's new[ Cloud Player](http://www.amazon.com/b/ref=amb_link_
355091782_4?ie=UTF8&node=2658409011&pf_rd_m=ATVPDKIKX0DER&pf_rd_s=center-2&pf_
rd_r=1GVYS1PH16HAPKNS9DMH&pf_rd_t=101&pf_rd_p=1291940422&pf_rd_i=163856011)
service.  Everyone else with a blog or twitter account is posting about it, so
I'll join the flock.

  

To clearify,  there's the Cloud Drive product which is a general file storage
service, and then there's the Cloud Player which lets you stream music stored
in your drive.  If you purchase music from the Amazon MP3 store you get the
option to send them to the Cloud Drive instantly (which also doesnt count
against your quota).

  

The free account is 5 gigs but right now if you purchase an album you get a
year of the 20 gig service for free.  It's normally $20 a year, so it ends up
being a good deal.  It worked well for me since I was at work with no way to
move my music over anyhow, and I wanted something to listen to.

  

The killer feature for me is the Android streaming.  After purchasing an
album, it showed up instantly in the android app and I was able to stream it
with no hiccups even on 3G.  The idea I can put nearly my entire music
collection somewhere that I don't have to worry about backups, and I can
stream to my browser or phone anywhere I am is just great.  I've been wishing
for a solution to let me get my music anywhere for quite some time and have
even rolled a few half baked solutions myself.  No more.  The Cloud Player is
perfect for me.

  

The music uploader app is written in Adobe Air... even so it seems to be
windows only.  Hopefully they fix that soon so us Linux folks will have a way
to upload in bulk as well.

