Title: Balance of Terror is better than your favorite episode.
Date: 2013-02-19 04:42:00+00:00
Category: star trek

When asked about the best episode of TOS, people will often reply with Trouble
With Tribbles, City on the Edge of Forever, or Mirror Mirror.  These poor
misguided souls have obviously never bathed in the perfection that is Balance
of Terror.

  
Ok,  maybe I'm going a bit far with that, but this is still a superb episode
that doesn't get enough praise.  It was only the eighth episode produced, but
was already a showcase of what made Trek great.  All the proceeding episodes
gave us a glimpse of why the franchise would command such a loyal following,
but Balance of Terror gave us everything.

  
First was the handling of blatant racism and bigotry of Lieutenant "Jerkface"
Stiles.  Trek has always been lauded for it's diverse cast, but this is the
first episode to spell out the issue and say "no asshole, you are wrong".
Couple this with the fact that the episode aired in 1966.  In 1966 an Alabama
sheriff used a cattle prod to dissuade African-Americans from using their new
found voting rights.  I know, we've all heard how progressive Trek was,  but
really, it still amazes me when you really place it into context.  Oh, and
once Stiles learns his lesson,  Spock handles it like a boss and isn't a dick
about it.

  
Another aspect that I believe we see for the first time is that this is a ship
of people **living** in space.  The episode opens on a wedding bring performed
by the Captain.  With so many parallels between contemporary navel vessels and
starships, it was interesting to see it driven home that these folks were no
on deployment... this was where they lived.  This is something we take for
granted in TNG,  but the roots are right here.

  
This is also the first time we really see the personality trifecta of Kirk,
Spock, and McCoy.  It's often pointed out that this cast was mainly driven by
Kirk's command and cunning,  McCoys morality, and Spock's logic.  In the
meeting room where they are discussing options, you see this very clearly.
This dynamic is played out many times between here and their final mission,
but this is the first time we get to see it used to come out on top of a no-
win situation.

  
Then there is the dialog.  Clearly someone liked Shakespeare.  Kirk and the
Romulan captain both deliver some great lines.  Shatner isn't normally
considered the best "serious" actor, but he did wonderfully here.  I wonder if
more episodes were written to play on his strengths, would we view Shatner the
same way we do today?

  
Finally, there's the epic cat and mouse game between the Enterprise and the
Bird of Prey.  Sure it's more or less a retelling of The Enemy Below, but it
just works.  This is more to the show's credit as it displays a strength that
Trek will see over and over: framing familiar stories in a new universe.  This
is the episode where Trek went from a fun space show to what it eventually
became: a new mythology for the modern era.  We even get to see the first race
which plays a significant role in Star Trek later on: The Romulans.  Unlike
the first Klingon appearance, they nailed down the Romulans pretty well from
the start.

  
It's all good stuff.  Go watch it.

  
I wrote this post as feedback for a project two of my friends are doing.  The
talented Shawn and Sergio are doing a run-through of every TOS episode plus
the six movies and doing weekly podcasts to sum out their thoughts.  I've been
trying to keep up so I can give some feedback, but after watching this episode
tonight, i realized my Facebook comment should be a post on its own.  Anyhow,
I encourage you to check out [Star Trek: Into
Dorkness](https://www.facebook.com/StarTrekIntoDorkness).  The daily updates
are fun, and the first podcast is out, and it's fantastic.

