Title: Commuting by bicycle
Date: 2008-06-26 00:26:00+00:00
Category: bikes

It's been over a month now since I decided to start using my bike as my
primary transportation. Before I started riding to work each day, I searched
for pages of other people who ride so that I might get some tips before
starting out. I found this to be of great help as I managed to learn a few
things the easy way thanks to someone else learning them the hard way.

  
  
  
Here's my own quick post of the subject, I hope someone will get something
useful from this.

  
  
  
**Why do it in the first place?  
  
**  

  
  
  
There were a few reasons I wanted to ride to work. Exercise is an obvious one,
I work a desk job and sitting in one spot for 8 hours per day just isn't good
for you. Riding a bike gives me a quick workout twice a day which has been
great for helping me maintain weight. Second is money, gas prices are rising
and show no sign of slowing, even with the purchase cost of my new bike, it
won't take long to recover the cost in what I don't spend on gas. And finally,
I really enjoy riding. I still go for long rides on the weekends, I love how
the sights, sounds, and smells of nature are easier to apprciate on a bike.

  
  
  
**What bike to use?**  

  
  
  
The best bike for commuting is easy, it's the one you'll actually want to
ride. This depends on many factors, but I would say cost and terrain are tops.
Any bike will work, but if you have an old walmart bike that barely works,
you'll never want to ride. A decent bike is a good investment if you inteed to
do this long term. You don't have to spend a fortune either, check craigslist
for deals, you can generally find good bikes going for much less than they
would cost new.

  
  
  
I personally spent $360 on a [Giant Sedona](http://www.giant-bicycles.com/en-
US/bikes/lifestyle/1277/29342/). I picked the bike because it would be decent
both on and off road, not to mention it is a very comfortable ride. It's
recently been on an 85+ mile round trip and has seen some light trail duty.

  
  
  
If your commute is smooth all the way or your city has dedicated bike lanes,
you may want to consider a dedicated road bike as they tend to be a little
easier to ride, and therefore you should exert less energy. If you ride over
poorly maintained roads, potholes, and other obstacles, a mountain bike may be
in order. If you do get a mountain bike, I suggest you swap out the knobby
dirt tires for some smoother ones. The tred on mountain tires will do nothing
but rob you of power when riding on pavement.

  
  
  
**How to dress**  

  
  
  
If you have a quick commute and live in a cooler climate, you may even get
away with wearing your work clothes (pleny people do). But I live in
Hattiesburg MS and work from 1pm to 10pm, so my commute takes place when it's
already over 90 degrees.

  
  
  
When I first started to commute, I wore a t-shirt, cargo shorts, and carried
my work clothes in a back pack. First of all, the cotton clothing just held
the sweat and felt like I was wearing a damp cloth after just a few minutes. I
would get to work completely covered in sweat. The backpack made matters worse
by holding in heat and not allowing air to get to my back.

  
  
  
After a couple weeks I finally invested in a cheap lycra shirt from walmart
and wear a pair of board shorts. The shirt pulls sweat from my body and
breathes well so it never stays wet. As a result I stay much cooler and get to
work with a light sweat instead of dripping.

  
  
  
I also bought a cheap luggage rack from walmart or target. Using this to carry
my work clothes instead of the backpack made the ride a lot better. I stayed
much cooler and didnt have an annoying pack on the whole time.

  
  
  
**Safety**  

  
  
  
As I mentioned previously, I ride home at 10pm. If you ride at night, good
lights are one of the best investments you can buy. I bought the largest
headlight/tailight combo I could get at the local bike shop. Don't skimp here,
you need to be as visible as possible. The lyrca shirt I wear is yellow, which
also helps out. Next I want to get a crossing guard looking vest that I see a
lot of motorcycle riders wear. As goofy as it looks, I'm not likely to go
unnoticed. I also picked up a simple helmet. I've read where people make a
case stating that a helmet will not signifigantly increase your odds of
surviving a serious crash, but any increase is good enough for me. Its light
and doesn't get in the way, so why not?

  
  
  
For the most part motorists are good about giving me space, you still come
across people who feel that bikes should stay off the road (and will tell you
this accompanied with several 4 letter words), but they are the exception.
Just be very alert and ready to react at intersections, taking turns, etc.
Never assume a car sees you or intends to yield to you. Stay aware at all
times.

  
  
  
**At Work**  

  
  
  
I always arrive at work about 30 minutes early to have time to cool off before
I change. The attire here is business casual so I can bring those clothes with
me on the bike with ease. If you wear a suit or anything similar, it may be a
good idea to leave your change of clothes at work. I leave my work shoes under
my desk to avoid bringing them both ways each day.

  
  
  
To clean up I use non scented wet wipes. I'll use a couple to wipe down most
of my body before putting on new deoderant and getting dressed. I also rinse
my hair in the sink before applying styling product. Once I'm dressed you'd
never know I was just riding my bike. The cleanup is pretty fast and easy.
Some people recommend getting a gym membership nearby to use their shower, I
do have a gym membership within walking distance of work, but so far I have
not found it necessary.

  
  
  
The first day I rode to work I wasn't sure where I was going to store the
bike. I came prepared to lock it to a pole outside, but I really didn't want
to. I decided to just bring it inside and try to keep it out of the way.
Instead of asking permission, I decided to just wait and see if someone would
tell me not to first. No one has had a problem with it, so it worked out well.
I do keep a cable lock on the frame as I often stop at the store on my way
home. I could get a stronger system, but I feel if someone wants to steal it,
they are. The cable lock just keeps people from riding off easily. A
determined theif would take the bike no matter the security used.

