Title: Epic Bike Trip: Natchez Trace
Date: 2008-09-12 16:10:00+00:00
Category: bikes

![](http://farm4.static.flickr.com/3286/2852046334_7bb37903ac.jpg)

  
Rory and I ride the Long Leaf Trace a good bit, its really nice, but I wanted
a change of scenery. I suggested that we ride the Natchez Trace and combine it
with a camping trip, and Rory said ok.

  
  
  
We got started later than expected, but finally got on the trace around 1pm.
Since the campground was about 45 miles away, I expected it would take 4-5
hours to get there based on how long it took us to ride the entire Longleaf
Trace, which is nearly the same distance.

  
Big mistake.

  
  
  
Longleaf is a Rails to trails project, an abandoned railroad line was paved
over for a trail, being that railroad tracks never exceed a certain road
grade, this makes for pretty flat riding. The Natchez trace is another story,
its a normal road for cars also, which means lots of hills. It took us roughly
7.5 hours to make it there.

  
  
  
Getting to the campsite after dark is never fun, we had plenty of light
though, so that was not a big problem, plus once I got a file going, I would
have plenty of light. Unfortunately, I could not get one started. There was
apparently a storm days before we went there, and while it seemed dry, all the
grass, limbs, sticks, pine needles, etc were just too damp to catch fire.

  
  
  
In hanging out at the campsite, raccoons eventually started coming around to
check us out. They're very curious, intelligent, and dexterous creatures.
Against better judgement, we also fed a couple to try and get them to come
closer. I'm not sure if this is what gave them the idea they could torment me
all night, but I'm sure it did not help.

  
  
  
After going to bed I was constantly woken up to find that I did not in fact
secure everything well enough. Did you know that a raccoon can operate a
zipper? Neither did I! Well this one could, and I got up just in time to see
him scurry off with my granola bar. So i eventually fell asleep for a while at
least, my backpack, shoes, clothing, and nearly everything else I brought
stuffed in my sleeping back with me. It was not plesant.

  
  
  
The next morning we got up at 7, cooked some beans (my little gas stove is a
lifesaver) and rode out. Thankfully we ate most of the food I brought and used
up the 3 liter bottle of water, this made my pack signifigantly lighter. We
made good time at first but the pace quickly slowed. It became obvious the
ride back was more uphill than the ride there, we finally made it back to the
vehicle about 5pm. We did however stop and take a nap on a sidewalk for about
an hour during the middle of the day.

  
  
  
Along the trip we saw lots of deer, a few turkeys, vultures, and even a baby
raccoon in the morning. It was actually quite a scenic trip, despite it being
long and tedious, it was quite enjoyable. I'm willing to do it again, just not
for some time.

