Title: Life and whatnot
Date: 2011-08-29 18:51:00+00:00
Category: Uncategorized

So I have not posted a blog entry in quite some time.  The period of time
between this and my last post has been eventful and I've neglected this blog
along with many other things.  I want to get back into the swing of writing,
but I feel I need to get caught up first.  Since April I have...

  

**Become divorced**

I assume people around me know about this by now, but every now and then I run
into someone else who has not heard.  I'm not going into the details here, but
it was the best thing for both of us.  I'm happier and healthier now, and I
can't imagine she feels any different.

  

**Visited Rome**

I was fortunate to be able to spend a week in the eternal city.  I stayed at a
hostel, met some amazing people, imbibed much Itallian wine, and saw some of
the most amazing things man has ever created.  Rome makes you feel very young
and very small.  I want to do a proper writeup at some point to detail the
trip.

  

**Bought a car**

In the wake of the divorce I found myself without a car.  I decided to remedy
this by picking up a 2004 Mazda RX8.  I've admired these cars since they were
first introduced.  Sure the fuel economy is bad, it's straight line
performance is iffy, but the song it sings at 9000rpm is something to behold.
Cornering is calm and effortless.  Sprited driving in the RX8 is like playing
a video game with cheat codes on.

  

**Started a new relationship**

My trip to Rome was very good for me and my self esteem which had been lower
than I can ever recall.  My experiences there inspired me to start dating
agin.  I signed up for OkCupid and gave it a shot.  I went on a few dates,
nothing particularly noteworthy until I went out with Marybeth.  We hit it off
right away and almost three months later are doing very well.  We have a lot
in common and seem to be very good for each other.

  

  

That's an extremely condensed version of the past several months.  I hope to
begin posting with more frequency starting soon.

