Title: Moving to Austin
Date: 2010-03-30 12:37:00+00:00
Category: general

I guess I should have announced this here sooner, but we are moving to Austin
Texas this June. When asked why, my general response as been "It's Austin".
When I tell this to Austin residents, they ask no more questions, that seems
to be a good enough reason.

  
  
  
To be more specific though, there are many reasons. Mainly I feel that I will
be able to grow there. While I believe you can learn something at all times
and places, I have lived in this same area for a very long time and feel that
sticking around is limiting me in some ways. I don't mean that as a slight
against Hattiesburg, I do love my city and will probably always consider it
home. With a wide range of interests, hobbies, and a passion to learn and do
more, I think a bigger city is a better fit for me.

  
  
  
I would also be lying if I said the job market was not a factor. The
unemployment rate in Mississippi is currently 12% and work for developers is
very slim right now. Austin is booming in comparison. There are a lot of
companies out there doing a lot of exciting work. I'd really like to make a
shift away from doing web development for outside clients and move to more
challenging work. To me it's not enough to earn a check, I want to innovate.

  
  
  
Finally, the dirty hippie in me finds Austin to be a little more hospitable.
I've been without a car for nearly 2 years now in a city that is poorly
equipped for cyclists. Austin on the other hand has miles of bike lanes, great
public transit, and a generally friendly attitude towards cycling. One figure
I read was that there were 38 bike shops in Austin. I find that the longer I
am without a car the less I want one. The environmental impact of a single car
is huge compared to that of a bike. With cycling being an option for me, I
just can't bring myself to get another car. Moving to Austin would make this
lifestyle one that is much easier.

  
  
  
Take these, the generally friendly people I have met there, the amazing
cuisine, the live music, and about a thousand other little things I could name
and Austin just seemed like the right choice. Big, but not too big, good
weather, lots of things to do. I can't wait.

  
  
  
If you know anyone in the area looking for an experienced web developer, let
me know!

