Title: Net Neutrality? It won once before and will again.
Date: 2010-04-06 16:45:00+00:00
Category: computing

Many people are (understandably) upset about the Federal Court of Appeals
[ruling that the FCC had no authority to force Comcast to stop throttling
bittorrent
traffic](http://www.nytimes.com/2010/04/07/technology/07net.html?hp).

  
  
  
I've been keeping up with the debate from early on and had a hard time forming
a clear view. As a user, I absolutely do not want an ISP determining what
traffic of mine is allowed and what is not. As an employee of an ISP, I see
Comcast's point; and not in the evil-media-company sort of way either. As an
ISP, traffic has to be managed to provide the best service. If the FCC were
given the authority to enforce net neutrality, many tasks performed by
Internet engineers to keep traffic flowing smoothly would no longer be
allowed. I think neutrality, as described by the FCC, is simply too broad of a
term.

  
  
  
That said, I also don't want things to go too far in the opposite direction.
One example given is that Comcast, who has an interest in you watching T.V.
the traditional way, might block Hulu or Netflix. I say let them.

  
  
  
Many of you may recall when getting online involved a modem and phone cord,
and not always an ISP. For many it meant using an online service such as AOL,
Prodigy, or Compuserve. These walled gardens offered a limited look at the
Internet, instead preferring to keep you on the content they were generating.
When the dial-up ISP became more common, users flocked to them not only for
their reasonable pricing, but also for their unfiltered Internet access.

  
  
  
Quite some time ago I read a comment from Ron Paul on this matter. While I'm
not a huge fan of the free market idea, I do agree with Paul that in this
case; free market should decide the outcome of net neutrality. Just as with
the online services of the mid 90's, users will flock from the cable companies
to smaller local providers with no such interest in controlling what a user
can access.

  
  
  
I hope I'm right.

