Title: Playing with Lisp (and why Ruby is so great)
Date: 2009-03-16 09:36:00+00:00
Category: programming

I've been playing with Lisp a lot lately. I've been a fan of lisp pretty much
from the time I was aware of it, it took me much longer however to get
comfortable using it on a regular basis.

  
  
  
When I was first introduced to Lisp, PHP was far and away my best language.
And of course if PHP makes perfect sense to you, lisp will make none.
Recursion and closures seemed alien and I could never imagine a need for such
things. I dabbled with it, but just never moved past that. While I could grok
some of the code I saw, I just didn't "get it".

  
  
  
Almost 3 years ago I picked up Ruby. I liked Ruby a lot because of it's object
system and the fact I could code in a way that was similar to the style I had
used for years. Ruby is neat in the fact that you have so many options, when
learning it you can start out coding in whatever style suits you while the
power of the language reveals itself as you learn more.

  
  
  
Ruby and Lisp have a lot in common, you can program in a purely functional
style, but you don't have to. Ruby has a lot of other neat things that lisp
has, just done in a slightly different way. It was finally understanding these
features via Ruby that made Lisp much easier to grasp.

  
  
  
So these days I'm writing a fair amount of my side project code in Lisp, Arc
to be exact. I think I'm finally at a point where I can think in lisp. I can
sit down at a repl and model whatever I'm trying to do with little trouble. I
really enjoy how oop is done in Ruby, and was suprised to find I can model
things just as well with lists as I could objects. I can easily see why many
people don't feel the need for an oop layer in lisp.

  
  
  
Oh, and if you're wondering why Arc? I can see how a clisp purist would not
like it much. But as someone fairly new to the langauge, I find it to be a lot
cleaner and easier to follow than other dialects. I even gave clojure a try
and found it to be a little too verbose for my taste. One of the goals of Arc
is to allow people to write shorter programs. I'm a big fan of that.

