Title: Thoughts on Craigslist
Date: 2011-04-02 04:50:00+00:00
Category: Uncategorized

There's an interesting discussion on [Hacker
News](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=2398238) about another [discussion
on Quora](http://www.quora.com/Why-hasnt-another-product-disrupted-and-
replaced-Craigslist/answer/Josh-Hannah?srid=u9C).  It seems in both the
popular opinion is that Craigslist is an ugly, hard-to-use, spam littered
site.  There are a few in these discussions who feel differently, I am counted
among these folks.

  

Craigslist is still one of my favorite sites, one which I visit regularly.  In
the last year alone I've purchased a motorcycle, car, bicycle, acquired an
amazing job, learned of great community events and more with this site.  To
say that it has served me well would be an understatement.  I should also
mention that I live in Austin TX, a city known for a strong sense of
community, perhaps it's an anomoly and CL in other cities is worse?

  

Most people attack the site based on it's dated looks.  No one can deny that
the design is indeed antiquated.  Craigslist however is a perfect example of
design driven by functionality.  Craigslist is designed to provide more-or-
less an web based replacement for the newspaper classified system.  If I go to
the site with a purpose in mind,  I can do that easily with no fluff getting
in my way.  There's no need for graphics, Ajax, fancy effects or the like.
Sure these things could give the site a more polished appearance,  but
appearence is all it would add.  The core functionality would stay the same at
best.

  

On the topic of spam, of course it's there.  The moderation is minimal, it's
free to post, and you can post pretty much anonymously.  That said,  I'm
constantly suprised at how little I actually see.  When i do encouter it there
is never a question.  It always seems quite obvious.  In sections with
particularly bad spam, the communities themselves have found ways to deal with
it.  People often mention the weather or local events to prove they are from
the area.  I think this is another case where throwing technology at a problem
will only hinder the simplicity of the site.

  

And as far as being hard to use... seriously?  There are few sites so obvious
in their functionality.  I agree that there are areas that are a little rough.
It would be nice to get a map link directly in a listing for an apartment or
house,  the thumbnails it uploads are so small it's almost worthless.  I say
almost because the listings for the bicycle, motorcycle, and car I mentioned
before all had the default low-resolution images... they were still clear
enough to warrant me going to check them out.  Adding more features like this
could serve to make certain things easier, but again would detract from the
core functionality.  Remember there are still people out there on dialup,
still people using old browsers, there are also blind people who have their
internet read to them by the computer.  The more modern Craigslist becomes,
the less useful it is to these folks.

  

That's really what it comes down to.  CL is a site for bringing the community
together.  If you have internet access, you can use it.  It's geared towards
the lowest common demoninator, but then so is the newspaper classified it was
designed to replace.  The reason I don't use anything else is because nothing
gets out of my way and just works as well as it does.  I hope it stays this
ugly for a long time to come.

