Title: Training Has Peaked
Date: 2009-11-16 11:08:00+00:00
Category: fitness

Yesterday I ran my longest run yet, 20 miles. That will be my longest until
December 5th, the day of the marathon. It feels like a big accomplishment to
make it 20 miles, but I still have to do that + 6 more in 3 weeks. I hope I
can make it!

  
  
  
I've learned a few things from all this. First of all, anyone can do this.
When I decided to run the marathon, I struggled to run 3 miles,and that was
not long after I started running period. At the beginning of the year I could
not run more than a quarter mile at a time. Constant work will get you there,
it happens slowly, but you can make it. I started seriously marathon training
in June, I gave myself longer than others have to account for lack of fitness
and any training interuptions. This was a good thing as I am currently right
on schedule.

  
  
  
The second thing I've learned is that it is not at all a linear process. Early
on, I was very encouraged on my first long run of 6 miles. I ran at a decent
pace and felt great after. The runs only got harder. Even though my fitness
was increasing, the difficulty was going up a lot with each additional mile. I
recall my first 9 mile run leaving me feeling like I had lost a fight. I would
say after 14-15 miles, the runs take a lot of will-power to finish. The
flipside of this, is that I consider a 10 mile run to be someone short and
relatively easy now. I've knocked out 10 mile runs before work recently where
early on they required a day of recovery.

  
  
  
I'm pleased with how training has worked out. The day I registered for the
marathon I had serious doubts that I could do this. It's amazing to think how
far I've progressed in the short span of time.I'm very much looking forward to
the race.

  
  
  
The Marathon by the way, is being held by St. Judes. If you are able,you
should donate to the cause at my friends site:
[StJudeHero.Com](http://stjudehero.com/). Charlie is a coworker and the guy
who convinced me to start running, he's done a wonderful job raising money for
this effort, please help him out!

