Title: Wikireader Review
Date: 2009-12-26 21:58:00+00:00
Category: computing

![](http://www.robsayers.com/images/wikireader.jpg)

For those who don't know, the [Wikireader](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0
02N5521W?ie=UTF8&tag=rsayers-20&linkCode=as2&camp=1789&creative=390957&creativ
eASIN=B002N5521W) is a $99 device for reading Wikipedia offline. It holds
about three million articles in a 4 gig micro-sd card and runs on 2 AAA
batteries.

The box contains the device, a slim manual, and 2 batteries. I popped in the
batteries, hit the power button and after a brief spashscreen was greeted with
the search prompt. I used the Wikireader's random button to check out a few
articles right away and was immediately impressed.

The screen is just about perfect. It's no e-ink, but It's one of the most
readable LCD displays I've seen. Even in very low light it's not a problem to
read the text which is extremely well rendered and crisp. Scrolling is done
quite intuitively with the touch-screen at pretty much a 1:1 speed. As you
drag the article up with your finger, it scrolls at the same speed you move.
Scrolling quickly to jump to a section in an article can be done quickly as
well.

The device is pretty slim, I've been carrying it around in a front pocket on
my jacket for a few days and never notice it's there. The screen is big enough
to fit a reasonable amount of text without making it too big. The front of the
Wikireader has three buttons: search, history, and random.

Search is not a keyword index search as you might expect, it searches only
article names. When in search mode, you can type using an on-screen touch
keyboard. I had problems typing with this at first. I eventually learned that
I needed to not think about what button I was pressing so much, and just press
it. Trying to be over-precise works against you, and even if you have large
fingers which touch a few letters, it does a good job of figuring out which
one you meant to hit. This is the only area where speed becomes and issue that
I have noticed, sometimes there is a bit of a delay between when you type and
when it registers the letter. I think this is due to the fact that is is
filtering the article list as you type. It has so far not been an annoyance,
just something I have noticed. Most of the usage comes from links in the
articles instead of direct searches, so it's not a huge issue.

  

  

The history button provides a list of articles you've already viewed. This
function works fine and I have no complains here. It does bring up something I
wish this did have: a back button. If you are reading and article and click a
link within, after you have finished reading the linked article, the only way
to return to the source is to hit the history button, and then select that
item from the top of the list. It's obvious in operation, but something you do
often enough to warrant it's own button I believe.

Random does exactly what you expect. I found this to be a great way to kill
time during holiday travel. Beware of this productivity black hole!

As for article rendering, there are a few issues. The device is text-only, so
there are no images. This is expected and not a big deal, but latex does not
render, so some articles have latex code still embedded. This is mainly on
math articles where latex is used for rending equations. Also absent is
International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA) rendering, that's the funny looking
characters which show you how to pronounce certain words. While understandable
as there are three million articles, these items are not gracefully absent and
do leave certain articles looking a bit rough.

Despite any negative points, for $99, its an amazing device. It's simple, does
one job, and does it well. I often look up things in Wikipedia on my
Blackberry, and this is far and away a better experience. The near instant
access and fact you never have to depend on network coverage is huge. The
documents claim it can run 1 year on a set of batteries in normal usage. A lot
of comments I've read claimed that smart phones make a device like the
Wikireader unnecessary. I have to disagree. I think this makes a great
compliment to a phone, and it's also something you can gladly get for a young
student, toss in your bag to go camping, or bring it along on international
trips. All of these are things that are much more difficult with the current
offering of smart phones.

And as side note, one fantastic aspect of the Wikireader is it's open nature.
The devices source code is all online to download and modify. Everything is
stored on a micro-sd card, so one could update the contents without even
relying on the manufacturer at all. Unlike so many other digital devices where
the consumer is somehow locked in to a certain vendor or is at the mercy of
the software updates they release, the Wikireader is completely free and can
be used and updated nearly indefinitely.

So if you're a Wikipedia junky, or just ever have a need for an offline
encyclopaedia, then I can recommend this highly. Sure it isn't for everyone,
but there are a lot of people who could really find this useful if they give
it a chance.

