Title: Will Technology ever pass us by?
Date: 2009-10-14 11:58:00+00:00
Category: general

![](http://www.robsayers.com/images/a2ad.jpg)

I had an interesting discussion with my friend Robert Petty. We are both from
Gen Y and microcomputers were already invading homes before we were born.
We've grown up with them and their integration into ourlives has been fairly
natural.

In contrast, many from older generations have never fully embraced computers
and view it as a necessary evil forced on them by a world which has changed
despite their protest. Mind you, I'm not stating everyone over a certain age
has technophobia, but I think we all know at least a few people who resent the
fact that may familiar aspects of their lives were complicated by computers.

Will the younger crowd, GenX, GenY, etc ever feel the same way in the future?
Will we ever reach a point where we wish things would just stay the way they
are? I suspect that as we grew up in a rapidly advancing world, we may be
immune to this. The only constant in our lives has been change and I often
find myself frusterated when certain aspects of life are not yet as
computerized as I feel they should be. For better or worse, I and many of my
peers would rather avoid dealing with a human for most tasks.

While It is promising to think we will be comfortable on the cutting edge of
technology into our elderly years, Robert made one good counter point. While
most people I know tend to converse in complete sentences with more-or-less
proper grammar, todays teens have essentially created an entirely new language
to use over SMS. I dislike reading this sort of text and dismiss it as
something people will grow out of, but why should they? While not at all
correct English, it is certainly more efficient and still offers an effective
form of communication. By that description alone it sounds like progress, but
my brain refuses to accept it.

So are we destined to wish things were the way they were in the good ole days
of computing? Or will we be the ones the march to the beat of progress well
after retirement?

