Title: You meet the nicest people on a Symba
Date: 2012-11-01 00:18:00+00:00
Category: Uncategorized

[![](http://3.bp.blogspot.com/-eNcS6yhydrI/UEpASHGhDKI/AAAAAAAAG_c/5ZbbxCsjVgg
/s400/IMG_20120907_125631.jpg)](http://3.bp.blogspot.com/-eNcS6yhydrI/UEpASHGh
DKI/AAAAAAAAG_c/5ZbbxCsjVgg/s1600/IMG_20120907_125631.jpg)

  
As you can see, I have not posted in quite some time.  Part of this is because
while running errands one day in July, a truck hit me on my Honda Ruckus.  I
healed up, the Ruckus did not and ended up in scooter heaven.

  
After my broken bones healed, I obviously needed to be on two wheels again,
but what to get?  While I enjoyed my Ruckus very much, I didn't enjoy it's
lack of power.  While it's 4 stroke engine was pretty powerful for it's
size... there's only so much you can do with 50cc.

  
The SYM Symba was on my short list of scooters to consider,  after a quick
test ride I knew I had to have it.  Other bikes I considered were the Zuma 125
and the Genuine Buddy, so why did I go with the SYM?

  
If you are at all familiar with motorcycle, or for that matter transportation
history, the bike above my look familiar.  If you're thinking it looks like a
Honda Super Cub, you would be correct.   Actually it doesn't just look like
one,  it pretty much is one.  Since the 1960's Honda has had SYM manufacture
it's  Super Cub motorcycle in Taiwan for various markets.  What I rode home
has a SYM badge on it, but in other parts of the world, this bike would have
worn the name Honda.

  
I've had a soft spot for the Cub since I first learned about them a few years
ago.  They were sold in the US under the name "C70 Passport" and worldwide
over 60 million have been made.  That's more than any other motorized vehicle
in history.   The Cub is in many ways the Japanese version of the Vespa, built
during the post war recovery to help get the population mobile.  The
[Wikipedia article](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Honda_Super_Cub) is worth a
read as it goes into good detail about how and why this bike was build.  James
May wrote an [excellent
article](http://www.telegraph.co.uk/motoring/columnists/jamesmay/3267424
/Honda-Cub-The-greatest-machine-ever.html) several years back that I think
properly summarizes the draw of this bike.

  
So how do I like it?  Well, after 1000 miles I must say I'm pleased.  I own a
motorcycle, and I have owned twist and go scooters.  The Symba fits neatly
between these two worlds and I think takes the best of both.  You do have to
shift it, but in return you get the ability to drop a gear on a steep hill,
and much less of the engines power is soaked up by the drivetrain unlike a
CVT.  With around 7hp, that really matters.  You don't however have to deal
with a clutch.  Starting out is just a matter of making sure you are in first
(and honestly it's just as happy to start out in second gear) and twisting the
throttle.  The 17" wheels are a welcome change from the 10" rollers that my
Ruckus had.  Potholes and speed bumps are now a slight jolt instead of a white
knuckled near death experience.

  
Unlike a regular motorcycle, it is an underbone design, so you've got some
space in front of you that I find handle for keeping a shopping bag when I
leave the store,  it also makes it easier to mount and dismount now that the
top case keeps me from swinging my leg over the back.  In most of the world,
it would be considered a small motorcycle,  in America though, it seems to
fall into the scooter category.  The state of Texas seemed to think it was a
moped when they sent me my tag, so who really knows?

  
What I do know is that I'm enjoying getting to ride it daily, I love how it
runs and how it looks.  Hopefully I can hold onto this bike a little longer
than the last one.

